Added the mentoring lead handbook for 3rd party mentorship programs (#6570)
kubernetes/community: mentoring/programs/mentoring-lead.md

> # Mentoring Lead Handbook

Reviewer: This should not be the mentoring lead; this should be the 3rd Party Mentoring Lead. 

Mentoring lead would assume all programs including group mentoring, new contributor workshop, and more. That is too much for one person

## Overview

The Mentoring Lead role is created to help upstream Kubernetes contributors to participates in various mentorship programs like [GSoC](mentoring/programs/google-summer-of-code.md), [GSoD](mentoring/programs/google-season-of-docs.md), [LFX Mentorship](mentoring/programs/lfx-mentorship.md) and many more as an independent organisation or under Cloud Native Computing Foundation(CNCF). 

> ## Responsibilities

Reviewer: I'd like to see these smoothed out more and called out with some specific actions that we already know need to happen. some of those are on the issue https://github.com/kubernetes/community/issues/6471

Major responsibilities incluedes a commitment to: 

> - Be proactive in information sharing regarding various mentorship cohorts

Reviewer: how? where?

> - Be a bridge between the CNCF employees and the mentors from kubernetes project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be a bridge between the CNCF staff, mentors, and mentees from kubernetes project
```

Reviewer: this one is another how and where?

- Be an active contributor, who could identify parts of the project that could get help from mentorship programs
- Be a go-to person for all SIGs to help them with their mentorship proposals
- Be welcoming of everyone by being your unique self
- Be inclusive on contributors, especially with new contributors joining kubernetes project as part of the mentoring process
- Be a leader of the mentoring sub-project with a commitment to its charter

### Minimum Skills and Requirements

Skills:

- Be comfortable with general GitHub workflows. You'll be working inside of multiple repositories with different workflows and helping others on the team with troubleshooting.
- Be a team player, making the project welcoming for new mentees and helping other members of the project interested to part in mentorship with the process.
- Be willing and capable of saying "no" as necessary, but try to get to a "yes, and" to help the community achieve its goals. In short, be empathetic.
- Strong written and verbal communication skills. A willingness to meet (a lot) of new people is important for this work.

Requirements:

- Member of the [Kubernetes GitHub Org]
- [Reviewer] in the mentoring folder

> - Not Necessary, but a previous mentee/mentor in any of the mentorship programme is preferrable

Reviewer: I like this one

#### Expected Time Investment

- Four hours a week as a minimal target, might be two hours more during the proposal submission perios

#### Duration  

> Ideally, no lead should be in the same position indefinitely. With that in mind,the project would like to see new leadership every 24 months to keep a fresh perspective. 

Reviewer: talk about the shadow here too

# Internship Mentoring Lead Handbook

## Overview

The Mentoring Lead role is created to help upstream Kubernetes contributors to participates in various mentorship programs like [GSoC](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/mentoring/programs/google-summer-of-code.md), [GSoD](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/mentoring/programs/google-season-of-docs.md), [LFX Mentorship](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/mentoring/programs/lfx-mentorship.md) and many more as an independent organisation or under Cloud Native Computing Foundation(CNCF). 

## Responsibilities
 The role lead should:

> - Keep a calendar of dates for each program (when to submit our project name, when to submit the project scope, when selecting period is, etc) throughout the   year and

Reviewer 2: not for this PR - but we should look into how we can publish these dates on a public calendar so anyone can subscribe to it. Might help applicants as well.

> - Coordinate all submissions and participation in each one

Reviewer 2: I'd also add a point here about sending out a call for applications and following up with SIGs to ensure that we can get a healthy number of applications.

Reviewer 2: I think it might be helpful to also explicitly call out that they are responsible for following up with mentors to ensure evaluations get submitted on time -- we've had cases where mentors just forgot to do this and we needed to chase them on twitter, etc too 😐

> - Go to sig meetings and slack channels to proactively help with scoping and planning work / job descriptions

Reviewer 2: I like this!

- Help onboard interns to the k8s specific community items like coordinate a hello for them at the k8s monthly community meeting

> - Help off board interns to the k8s specific community items like demo at monthly community meeting

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to also include an explicit point that they would be the main point of contact (unless delegated otherwise) for applicants and mentees, and should respond to queries within a reasonable amount of time.

This can also be a good place to add that the lead is actively encouraged to delegate work and mentor shadows.

I want to call this out specifically because the mentoring lead would end up getting a lot of DMs during the application period. It gets overwhelming. Delegation becomes *very* important here.

### Role Description

Major responsibilities includes a commitment to: 

- Be proactive in information sharing, through the mailing list/slack channels, regarding various mentorship cohorts
- Be a bridge between the CNCF staff, mentors, and mentees from kubernetes project

> - Be an active contributor, who could identify parts of the project that could get help from mentorship programs

Reviewer 2: I like this too :)

- Be welcoming of everyone by being your unique self
- Be inclusive on contributors, especially with new contributors joining kubernetes project as part of the mentoring process
- Be a leader of the mentoring sub-project with a commitment to its charter

### Minimum Skills and Requirements

Skills:

- Be comfortable with general GitHub workflows. You'll be working inside of multiple repositories with different workflows and helping others on the team with troubleshooting.
- Be a team player, making the project welcoming for new mentees and helping other members of the project interested to part in mentorship with the process.
- Be willing and capable of saying "no" as necessary, but try to get to a "yes, and" to help the community achieve its goals. In short, be empathetic.
- Strong written and verbal communication skills. A willingness to meet (a lot) of new people is important for this work.

Requirements:

- Member of the [Kubernetes GitHub Org]
- [Reviewer] in the mentoring folder
- Not Necessary, but a previous mentee/mentor in any of the mentorship programme is preferrable

#### Expected Time Investment

> - Four hours a week as a minimal target, might be two hours more during the proposal submission perios

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Four hours a week as a minimal target, might be two hours more during the application period
```

#### Duration  

> Ideally, no lead should be in the same position indefinitely. With that in mind,the project would like to see new leadership every 24 months to keep a fresh perspective. 

Reviewer 2: We should also add a point in the list of responsibilities for the lead to nominate a new lead within 24 months, so this is codified in policy.

### Becoming a Shadow

> Any regular contributor to mentoring subproject can put forward their interest to the mentoring lead to become a shadow. If accepted, the objective of the council members is to nurture that shadow into a leadership position in the next 12 months. 

Reviewer 2: Who/what does council members refer to here?

#### Expectations of a Shadow

> Consistently communicate and collaborate closely with the lead. The objective is to get you, as the shadown, to be a confident leader of the above responsibilities. Be ready to backfill for them when they are unable to attend a meeting or represent the subproject.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consistently communicate and collaborate closely with the lead. The objective is to get you, as the shadow, to be a confident leader of the above responsibilities. Be ready to backfill for them when they are unable to attend a meeting or represent the subproject.
```
